# Cycle 2 Lesson 3 - CSS!

* Date: 01.24.17

## Today's Objectives

Review:
* Be able to build a simple HTML website using Sublime Text and Google Chrome
* Be able to link an external CSS stylesheet to their HTML page
* Be able to use Google search to learn how to build new things
* Be able to recreate a website design using HTML & CSS

## 1. Adding style to our HTML with CSS!

### A. What is CSS?

We use HTML and CSS to build websites.

CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheet.

HTML gives our content structure, and **CSS** gives our content **style**.

CSS works with HTML, but **is not** HTML.

A piece or chunk of CSS is called a **CSS rule**.

### B. Adding CSS to yor HTML

```html
<head>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css">
</head>
```

### C. CSS Rules

A CSS rule has a **selector**, and **property - value** pairs.

```css
selector {
  property: value;
  property: value;
  property: value;
}
```

For example, if I want to make all paragraphs blue with larger text, I might write:

```html
<p>I wish this text were more colorful</p>
```

```css
p {
  color: blue;
  font-size: 40px;
}
```

**A pixel (px)** is a unit of measure for a computer display.

### D. Classes

A **class** allows us to style certain HTML elements differently from the rest.

A class allows us to name an HTML element (p, h1, a, div), and refer to it in our CSS:
* To name or classify an element, we add the `class` attribute to its HTML tag.
* To refer to a class in CSS, we preface the class with a `.`

You can think of **classes** as **names** for HTML elements.

For example, if I want to style all my paragraphs a certain way, except for a particular paragraph, I can do the following:

```html
<p>This is a normal pagragraph</p>

<p>This is another normal paragraph</p>

<p class="special">This is a special paragraph</p>
```

```css
p {
  color: black;
  font-size: 16px;
}

.special {
  color: red;
  font-size: 20px;
}
```

## 2. Challenge Exercise: Beautifully Designed Restaurant Website

Recreate the design for my favorite restaurant, Cafe China, for your restaurant website
  * http://www.cafechinanyc.com

## 3. Review Excerise: CSS Scavenger hunt

Add the following to the website you just built:

* Give all images a border of 1px
* Make every h1 25px and orange
* Underline every link in red
* Make every paragraph Arial or, if not available, san-serif
* Make every paragraph italicized, with 16px bold text and san-serif font
* Give images a round border

## 4. Review Exercise: Your personal profile page WITH STYLE

**Add style to your personal website!**

Using JSBin, create a new webpage: your personal profile page.

You can use [Facebook's profile page](https://www.facebook.com/zuck) for inspiration.

Requirements:
* Images
* Links to your favorite sites
* A list of your hobbies
* A list of your favorite places to eat
* Facts about your family history or your early life

You can add anything you'd like to share!

## 5. Homework

* **[Review]** Complete today's exercises (Scavenger hunt & profile page)
* **[Review]** Complete the [Codecademy HTML & CSS course](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/web)
* **[Challenge]** Complete [General Assembly's HTML & CSS course](https://dash.generalassemb.ly/)
* **[Challenge]** Finish the restaurant website
